.TH ED\-STOP 1 "May 2024" "ed-stop 1.x" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
ed\-stop \- Stop an eventdispatcher service by sending a Unix signal to it
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ed\-stop
[\fIOPTION\fR]... \fI<service>\fR

.SH DESCRIPTION
This command uses systemctl to find the process identifier to send a Unix
signal to. If the service cannot be found, the process does nothing. If
found, then it sends it a `SIGINT'. If that fails to stop the process, then
a `SIGTERM' is used. If that also fails, then the service is not stopped by
us. However, systemctl is likely to send a `SIGKILL' as a result.
.PP
Our services often implement a callback capturing the SIGINT signal. This gives
them a chance to cleanly stop. In most cases, it will simulate receipt of
a `STOP' message.

.SH "COMMAND LINE OPTIONS"
.TP
\fB\-\-build\-date\fR
Display the date and time when the tool was last built.

.TP
\fB\-\-command\-help\fR
List the commands understood by `ed-stop'.

.TP
\fB\-\-compiler\-version\fR
Output the version information of the C++ compiler used to compile the
`eventdispatcher' library. In most cases, this is the same as the compiler used
to compile the `ed-stop' tool.

.TP
\fB\-\-configuration\-filenames\fR
List the filename of each configuration file that `ed-stop' reads to get
initialized. (Note that at the moment the `ed-stop' does not make
use of a configuration file.)

.TP
\fB\-C\fR, \fB\-\-copyright\fR
Print out the copyright notice of the `ed-stop' tool.

.TP
\fB\-\-environment\-variable\-name\fR
Print the name of the variable to the console. This variable can be used
to enter options instead of writing them on the command line or the
setup file. Commands are not allowed in the environment variable.

.TP
\fB\-\-has\-sanitizer\fR
Print whether this version was compiled with the C++ compiler sanitizer.

.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Print a brief document about the tool usage, then exit.

.TP
\fB\-L\fR, \fB\-\-license\fR
Print out the license of `ed-stop' and exit.

.TP
\fB\-?\fR, \fB\-\-long\-help\fR
Print all the available help about the tool usage, then exit.

.TP
\fB\-\-option\-help\fR
Print the list of options supported by `ed-stop'.

.TP
\fB\-\-path\-to\-option\-definitions\fR
Option definitions can be defined in a .ini file. If it exists, this is the
path where it can be found.

.TP
\fB\-\-print\-option\fR \fI<name>\fR
Print the value of the named option once all the options available were
parsed (command line, environment variables, configuration files).

.TP
\fB\-\-show\-option\-sources\fR
The `advgetopt' library has the ability to trace where each value is
read from: which file, the command line, the environment variable.
This option can be used to determine where a value is defined, which
once in a while is particularly useful.

.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-service\fR \fI<name>\fR
The name of the service to stop. If you have the service Process Identifier
(pid), then you can also specify the pid.

The tool distinguish the pid from a service name by the fact that a pid
is only digits ([0-9]+). Note that the pid of 0 is considered invalid.
You cannot enter a negative pid (the dash is viewed as a command line
option introducer).

When specifying a name instead of a pid, the tool attempts to determine
the pid using systemctl like so:

.IP "" 11
systemctl show --property MainPID --value <name>

.IP "" 7
Where <name> is the same as specified with the \-\-service command line
option of `ed-stop'.

.TP
\fB\-S\fR, \fB\-\-show\-system\-help\fR
Print the list of system command line options.

.TP
\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-\-timeout\fR \fI<seconds>\fR
The number of seconds to wait for the service to die after sending it
a signal.

There is a minimum of 10 seconds. If you try to use a smaller number,
then the `ed-stop' process will still wait at least 10 seconds.

Similarly, there is a maximum of 1h. If you try to use a larger number,
the `ed-stop' process will wait for 3600 seconds and timeout then.

.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Print version number, then exit.

.SH COMMENTS
.PP
The `ed-signal' is generally the preferred tool to stop a service as
it softly sends a `STOP' message to the service. However, there are
times when a service does not listen for messages or the communicator
daemon is down (it may be required to send the message to the service).
.PP
A later version may implement both functionality in a single tool.

.SH AUTHOR
Written by Alexis Wilke <alexis@m2osw.com>.
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs to <https://github.com/m2osw/eventdispatcher/issues>.
.br
eventdispatcher home page: <https://snapwebsites.org/project/eventdispatcher>.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2011-2025  Made to Order Software Corp.  All Rights Reserved
.br
License: GPLv3
.br
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.
.br
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ed-signal(1)
